# GUI-Java
Flight Schedule Builder 
#This project was for computer science classs  221.
#Using Java and Derby Database to build a flight schedule builder 

This application should have a very nice GUI interface and will be a database driven application. The database used will be Derby. This application must use good Object Oriented Design and Programming. The database must use good Object-Oriented Design and Programming. There is a very close correlation between Object-Oriented Design and Database Design. Your application design should include at least four classes besides the main GUI class, e.g. Customer class, Flightclass, Dayclass..., Bookings class,etc. Your database accesses should be in the classes that correlate with the database tables.This assignment is the first half of the final project and will be submitted as Programming Assignment 6. This phase of the project will implement the following user commands:AddCustomerThe customer is added to the database. The customer is identified by only onename.BookCustomer DayFlightThe customer will be assigned theflightfor the requested day, if there are seatsavailable. If seats arenot available, the customer will be put on thewait list for that flight. The waiting list must be maintained in the order the customers tried to book their flights. Status Flight DayThe Status command for flight and daywill display the customers that have been booked for that flight on that day. Status Waiting List by DayThe Status command for the Waitlist will display all the customers waiting for flights on the specified day.Database considerations:
The FlightTable should be preloaded with several flights such as F101, G102 and the number of seats on the flight. Two seats per flight would be suggested to make testing easier.The DayTable should be preloaded with several days of your choice.The database tables should not contain redundant data, i.e. relevant data should only appear in one table.GUI Guidelines: The user should be required to enter only unknown data. Drop down lists of known data such as Customer names, Flightnames,or Daysshould be displayed for the user to select from. Combo Boxes should be used for the drop down listson the form. When information is requested to be displayed e.g. for a Status command, all of the requested information must be displayed. When a command is performed, the results of that command should be displayed to the user on the same display without the user needing to check Status to see what was done.


This assignment is the final half of the project. The final project is a continuation of Programming Assignment 6. This phase of the project will additionally implement the following user commands:AddFlightSeatsAdd a new flight to the system.The Flight name is a string and Seats is the number of seats in the flight.CancelCustomer DayThe bookingfor that Customer and Daymust be removed from the flight’sbookings or the waiting list. If the booked entry is removed from a flightsbookings, the waiting list must be checked to determine if another customer can be booked with that flightfor that day.AddDayAdd a new Day for flightsto the system.Status CustomerThe Status command for a customer will display the flight and day for each flight the customer has booked and/or is waitlisted for.Drop Flight The Drop command must remove a flight from the application. Any customers that have been booked for this flight on any day must be rebooked with another flight for that day if possible in priority sequence and the rebooking reported to the user. If the customer cannot be rebooked, the user is informed that the customer could not be rebooked.Any customers on the waitlist for that flight must also be deleted
Database considerations:The Flight and DayTables no longer need to be preloaded with values. When submitted, all database tables should be empty. The database tables should not contain redundant data, i.e. relevant data should only appear in one table.GUI Guidelines: The user should be required to enter only unknown data. Drop down lists of known data such as Flight names or Days should be displayed for the user to select from. Combo Boxes should be used to categorize data on the form. When information is requested to be displayed e.g. for a Status command, all of the requested information must be displayed. When a command is performed, the results of that command should be displayed to the useron the same display without the user needing to check Status to see what was done.


